release-6.35.0-changelogs (#22669)
hashicorp/terraform-provider-google: CHANGELOG.md

## 6.35.0 (Unreleased)

BREAKING CHANGES:

> * metastore: remove non-functioning `tags` field from `google_dataproc_metastore_service`. It was introduced in v6.31.0 but the feature was not yet GA. ([#22636](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22636))
> * redis: remove non-functioning `tags` field from `google_redis_instance `. It was introduced in v6.31.0 but the feature was not yet GA. ([#22637](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22637))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* metastore: removed non-functioning `tags` field from `google_dataproc_metastore_service`. It was introduced in v6.31.0 but the feature was not yet GA. ([#22636](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22636))
* redis: removed non-functioning `tags` field from `google_redis_instance `. It was introduced in v6.31.0 but the feature was not yet GA. ([#22637](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22637))
```

> BREAKING CHANGES:
> * metastore: remove non-functioning `tags` field from `google_dataproc_metastore_service`. It was introduced in v6.31.0 but the feature was not yet GA. ([#22636](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22636))
> * redis: remove non-functioning `tags` field from `google_redis_instance `. It was introduced in v6.31.0 but the feature was not yet GA. ([#22637](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22637))
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
These are beta-only features. Are these entries needed in the GA provider? However, given they're breaking changes, we could probably be extra cautious and keep them in both.

Author: We're removing these features from the GA provider because they're beta-only. So the breaking change is only in the GA provider.

Reviewer: Okay, it seems you're suggesting the same in https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9956#discussion_r2087223142. Removed in beta.

FEATURES:
* **New Resource:** `google_compute_cross_site_network` ([#22632](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22632))

IMPROVEMENTS:
* alloydb: added `psc_auto_connections` field to `google_alloydb_instance` resource ([#22630](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22630))
* apigee: added `s_sl_info.enforce` field in `google_apigee_target_server` resource ([#22594](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22594))
* bigquery: added `security_mode` option for `google_bigquery_routine` resource ([#22643](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22643))

> * bigtable: add support for explicit disable automated backup on create for `google_bigtable_table` ([#22635](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22635))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* bigtable: added support for explicit disable automated backup on create for `google_bigtable_table` ([#22635](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22635))
```

> * compute: add `guest_os_features` and `architecture` to `google_compute_instance_template` and `google_compute_region_instance_template` ([#22644](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22644))
> * compute: allow in-place updates for `subnetworks`, `description`, `producer_accept_lists`, and `producer_reject_lists` on `google_compute_network_attachment` ([#22611](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22611))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* compute: added `guest_os_features` and `architecture` to `google_compute_instance_template` and `google_compute_region_instance_template` ([#22644](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22644))
* compute: allowed in-place updates for `subnetworks`, `description`, `producer_accept_lists`, and `producer_reject_lists` on `google_compute_network_attachment` ([#22611](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22611))
```

* netapp: added `volume_region` and `backup_region` fields to `google_netapp_backup` ([#22625](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22625))
* networkconnectivity: added `immutability` field to `google_network_connectivity_internal_range` resource ([#22623](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22623))
* networkservices: added `flex_shielding` field to `google_network_services_edge_cache_origin` resource ([#22645](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22645))
* spanner: added field `default_time_zone` to `google_spanner_database` resource ([#22628](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22628))
* storage: added new field `content_hexsha512` and `content_base64sha512` in data source `google_storage_bucket_object_content` ([#22592](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22592))

BUG FIXES:
* gemini: fixed bug on `google_gemini_code_repository_index` where `force_destroy` field did nothing ([#22648](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22648))

> * privateca: removed requirement to specify `organization` when creating a Certificate Authority ([#22634](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22634))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* privateca: removed requirement to specify `organization` for `google_privateca_certificate_authority` resource ([#22634](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22634))
```

* workbench: fixed some metadata changes not being reflected in `google_workbench_instance` ([#22612](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22612))

## 6.34.1 (May 12, 2025)

BUG FIXES:

> * bigtable: fixed forced instance recreation due to addition of `cluster.node_scaling_factor` for `google_bigtable_instance` ([#22674]([https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google-beta/pull/9961](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22674)))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* bigtable: fixed forced instance recreation due to addition of `cluster.node_scaling_factor` for `google_bigtable_instance` ([#22674](https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-provider-google/pull/22674))
```
